# Create

**Descriptions**  
The subcommands can be used to to create various items, on and off the blockchain.  

**Subcommands**
 * [Account](#account) — Retrieve an account from the blockchain.
 * [Key](#key) — Retrieve accounts associated with a public key.

*****
# Account

### Description
The subcommand creates a new account on the blockchain (assumes system contract does not restrict RAM usage).

### Positional Parameters
 * `(string) creator`— The name of the account creating the new account (required).
 * `(string) name`— The name of the new account (required).
 * `(string) OwnerKey`— The owner public key or permission level for the new account (required).
 * `(string) ActiveKey`— The active public key or permission level for the new account.

### Options
 * `-x`, `--expiration` *TEXT* — Set the time (in seconds) before a transaction expires, defaults to *30* s.
 * `-f`, `--force-unique` — Force the transaction to be unique. This will consume extra bandwidth and remove any protections against accidently issuing the same transaction multiple times.
 * `-s`, `--skip-sign` — Specify if unlocked wallet keys should be used to sign transaction.
 * `-j`, `--json` — Print result as JSON.
 * `-d`, `--dont-broadcast` — Do not broadcast transaction to the network (just print to `stdout`).
 * `--return-packed` — Used in conjunction with `--dont-broadcast` to get the packed transaction.
 * `-r`, `--ref-block` *TEXT* — Set the reference block num or block id used for TAPOS (Transaction as Proof-of-Stake).
 * `-p`, `--permission` *TEXT* — An account and permission level to authorize, as in 'account@permission' (defaults to 'creater@active').
 * `--max-cpu-usage-ms` *UINT* — Set an upper limit on the milliseconds of CPU usage budget, for the execution of the transaction (defaults to *0* which means no limit).
 * `--max-net-usage` *UINT* — Set an upper limit on the net usage budget (in bytes) for the transaction (defaults to *0* which means no limit).
 * `--max-ram-usage` *UINT* — Set an upper limit on the ram usage budget (in bytes) for the transaction (defaults to *0* which means no limit).
 * `--max-storage-usage` — Set an upper limit on the storage usage budget, (in bytes) for the transaction (defaults to *0* which means no limit).
 * `--delay-sec` *UINT* — Set the `delay_sec` seconds, defaults to *0* s.
 * `--bandwidth-provider` *TEXT* — Set an account which provide own bandwidth for transaction.
 * `--dont-declare-names` — Do not add `declarenames` action for resolved account names.
 
### Command
```
$ cleos create account [OPTIONS] <creator> <name> <OwnerKey> [<ActiveKey>]
```

### Examples
A set of keys is required to create an account. These keys can be generated by using `cleos create key`.
```
$ cleos create account alice bob  GLS5to...hBdcBw  GLS7A3u...K3bAS
```

# Key

### Description
The subcommand creates a new keypair and prints the public and private keys.

### Positional Parameters
No parameters required fot this subcommand.

### Options
 * `--r1`, `-j` — Generate a key using the R1 curve (iPhone), instead of the K1 curve (Bitcoin).
 * `-f`, `--file` TEXT` — Name of file to write private/public key output to. (Must be set, unless `--to-console` is passed).
 * `--to-console` — Print private/public keys to console.

### Command
```
$ cleos create key [OPTIONS]
```

### Examples
```
$ cleos create key -f privatedata
```
```
Private key: SxY7ghj...judaU
Public key: GLS5sUR...dSmc96
```